# Logins

The logins SQL schema is based on the original [Firefox for iOS implementation](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/firefox-ios/blob/faa6a2839abf4da2c54ff1b3291174b50b31ab2c/Storage/SQL/SQLiteLogins.swift).

Logins used to be called "passwords", so you might still see references to the latter. The Sync server, for instance, stores login records in the "passwords" collection.

## Record format

There are two kinds of saved logins: forms, and HTTP authentication credentials.

Forms with username and password fields are the most common type. Here's an example of a form record:

```json
{
  "hostname": "https://example.com",
  "formSubmitURL": "https://example.com",
  "httpRealm": null,
  "username": "hi@example.com",
  "password": "S3kr3tz",
  "usernameField": "inputEmail",
  "passwordField": "inputPassword",
  "timeCreated": 1554854025151,
  "timePasswordChanged": 1554854025151,
}
```

* `hostname` is the _origin_ of the site: scheme, hostname, and port. (It's called the "hostname" for historical reasons, even though it includes the scheme and port, too).
* `formSubmitURL` is the _origin_ of the `<form>` element's `action` attribute, or the origin of the site if the `<form>` for this login doesn't have an `action`.
* `httpRealm` is always `null`.
* `usernameField` and `passwordField` are the `name`s of the `<input>` fields containing the username and password.
* `timeCreated` and `timePasswordChanged` are when the login was first saved, and when the password was last changed, respectively. Both are in milliseconds.

HTTP authentication credentials aren't as common. These come from the "Authentication Required" dialog in Firefox Desktop. Here's an example record:

```json
{
  "hostname": "https://example.com",
  "formSubmitURL": null,
  "httpRealm": "",
  "username": "user",
  "password": "S3kr3tz",
  "usernameField": "",
  "passwordField": "",
  "timeCreated": 1554854025151,
  "timePasswordChanged": 1554854025151,
}
```

* Unlike in forms, `formSubmitURL` is always `null`, and `usernameField` and `passwordField` are always empty.
* `httpRealm` comes from the `WWW-Authenticate` HTTP header. It's what Firefox shows you in the dialog, after "The site says:".
