# The database

Our database of choice is SQLite. Logins, bookmarks, and history are relational data, and Places in particular makes heavy use of joins, indexes, constraints, and triggers. Each component defines a schema with tables for local and synced data. The sync tables also stage incoming and outgoing items, and help with conflict resolution. Finally, this layer manages SQLite connections, and provides conveniences for executing SQL statements.

## Connection management

A database can have many read-only connections, but only two read-write connections: a main writer that's exposed to the application, and an internal Sync connection. Each component provides a way to open a new reader, or get the existing writer.

## Schema migrations

Opening the first connection to an existing database runs migrations to bring the database up to date. The latest schema and version are always baked in to the component. For the logins component, you can find the schema in `components/logins/src/schema.rs`. For Places, take a look at `components/places/sql` and `components/places/src/db/schema.rs`.

Opening a connection to a file that doesn't exist creates and initializes an empty database. Opening a database with a newer schema version is supported, but the version will be rolled back. As long as the schema changes are backward-compatible, this lets different release channels work with the same database.

Read-write connections can also set up temporary in-memory tables and triggers. These are used for internal operations, like history expiration, frecency recalculation, and merging synced bookmarks in Places. Read-only connections don't have these.

## WAL

All connections use SQLite's [WAL](https://sqlite.org/wal.html) mode. This is faster than the default rollback journal, and allows concurrent reads and writes. However, this does mean that read-only connections might not immediately see changes from read-write or Sync connections.

Reading occasionally stale data is perfect for performance-sensitive use cases, like fetching URL bar autocomplete matches. For cases where consistency is more important, like the history, bookmarks, and saved logins list views, it's better to always read using the read-write connection. That way, reads after writes always return the just-written data.

WAL mode doesn't allow multiple concurrent writes. This means that, for example, adding a bookmark or navigating to a page during a sync may cause one of the writes to fail. The Places component handles this, and prioritizes writes from the main connection over the Sync connection.

## Maintenance

Maintenance runs a tune up on the database, rebuilding indexes and checking for schema coherence. Currently, only the Places component exposes a maintenance operation, for vacuuming the database.

## Encryption

Components can use SQLCipher to encrypt data on disk. This is currently enabled by default for logins, and disabled for Places.
