.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH VWEBP 1 "October 19, 2015"
.SH NAME
vwebp \- decompress a WebP file and display it in a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vwebp
.RI [ options ] " input_file.webp
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents the
.B vwebp
command.
.PP
\fBvwebp\fP decompresses a WebP file and displays it in a window using OpenGL.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage summary.
.TP
.B \-version
Print version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-noicc
Don't use the ICC profile if present.
.TP
.B \-nofancy
Don't use the fancy YUV420 upscaler.
.TP
.B \-nofilter
Disable in-loop filtering.
.TP
.BI \-dither " strength
Specify a dithering \fBstrength\fP between 0 and 100. Dithering is a
post-processing effect applied to chroma components in lossy compression.
It helps by smoothing gradients and avoiding banding artifacts. Default: 50.
.\" TODO(jzern): restore post-v0.4.1
.\" .TP
.\" .BI \-noalphadither
.\" By default, quantized transparency planes are dithered during decompression,
.\" to smooth the gradients. This flag will prevent this dithering.
.TP
.B \-mt
Use multi-threading for decoding, if possible.
.TP
.B \-info
Display image information on top of the decoded image.
.TP
.BI \-\- " string
Explicitly specify the input file. This option is useful if the input
file starts with an '\-' for instance. This option must appear \fBlast\fP.
Any other options afterward will be ignored. If the input file is "\-",
the data will be read from \fIstdin\fP instead of a file.
.TP

.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
.TP
.B 'c'
Toggle use of color profile.
.TP
.B 'i'
Overlay file information.
.TP
.B 'q' / 'Q' / ESC
Quit.

.SH BUGS
Please report all bugs to our issue tracker:
https://bugs.chromium.org/p/webp
.br
Patches welcome! See this page to get started:
http://www.webmproject.org/code/contribute/submitting-patches/

.SH EXAMPLES
vwebp picture.webp
.br
vwebp picture.webp -mt -dither 0
.br
vwebp \-\- \-\-\-picture.webp

.SH AUTHORS
\fBvwebp\fP was written by the WebP team.
.br
The latest source tree is available at http://www.webmproject.org/code
.PP
This manual page was written for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dwebp (1)
.br
Please refer to http://developers.google.com/speed/webp/ for additional
information.
